:Date: 2013-01-10 19:08:43

.. _walk-woods:

A Walk in the Woods
===================

I've recently schemed some very large changes in my life, and I
have been trying to figure out how to blog about it. It all starts
with quitting my job at Urban Airship. I sent an email to the staff
announcing my departure, and I can't think of a better way to
remember this moment in time than to include it in full in my blog.
So, here is the letter I wrote to everyone at work when I left the
company.

--------------

All,

It's with great anticipation and mixed feelings that I announce the
end of my ride upon the Airship.

For I am leaving to face a greater challenge and a personal life
goal. I will be attempting to walk 2650 miles from Mexico to Canada
along the Pacific Crest Trail starting in the spring. Doing a
thru-hike of the AT or the PCT has long been something I have
wanted to do, and I am in a place in my life where the
responsibilities I have are minimal, so it seems like a great time
to go walk in the woods for 5 months. The approximate timeline is
from April 15~September 30.

.. figure:: http://i.imgur.com/rpU5z.jpg
   :align: center
   :alt: Pacific Crest Trail
   
   Pacific Crest Trail

I will be starting training for the hike immediately, and that is
hard with a full time job. Luckily, I have been offered a contract
gig to work on my side project Read the Docs for as many hours as I
want until I leave. This is another life dream come true, the
ability to get paid to work on an Open Source project that I have
created.

With this confluence of fortune, I leave the Airship for what
should be one of the most amazing years of my life.

I would like to thank everyone who I have had the opportunity to
work with here at UA, because it has been the best job of my life.
Watching the company grow from 15 to over 100 people has been a
formative experience in my professional life. I can only hope that
I will get another chance to watch such an amazing group of people
build such a great company again.

My last day will be Friday, Jan 18th. So, feel free to come accost
me while I'm still here and ask me questions, or call me crazy, or
give me hugs. I'll also be kicking around in Portland until April,
so I should still be around for the PDX Python meetups and other
bits and pieces.

My personal email address is eric@ericholscher.com if you want to
keep in touch. I will be blogging about my experience on my website
at http://ericholscher.com, if you want to follow along. There
isn't anything there yet because this wasn't public knowledge, but
I will start posting about it soon.

.. figure:: http://i.imgur.com/IXspr.gif
   :align: center
   :alt: Cop High Five
   
   Cop High Five

“Live in each season as it passes; breathe the air, drink the
drink, taste the fruit, and resign yourself to the influence of the
earth.” ― Henry David Thoreau, Walden

Cheers, Eric

tl;dr:


-  I'm leaving Urban Airship.
-  I'm going to be hiking 2650 miles from Mexico to Canada on the
   Pacfic Crest Trail starting on April 15, hopefully ending near the
   end of September.
-  I've gotten a contracting gig to work on Read the Docs (my open
   source side project) for as many hours as I wish until then.
-  How much I love you: lots

tl;dr gif:

.. figure:: http://i.imgur.com/eZGh9.gif
   :align: center
   :alt: Oregon Trail
   
   Oregon Trail


